
#  Image Captioning System

This project focuses on creating a model that generates descriptive captions for images based on their visual content, providing a textual representation of the image content.
## Description

The architecture comprises an image encoder, which extracts features from input images using a convolutional neural network (CNN), and a caption decoder, which generates captions using recurrent neural networks (RNNs) conditioned on the extracted image features. The project includes data preparation, model training, evaluation, and visualization components, facilitating the development and assessment of the image captioning model's performance.
## Getting Started

#### Requirements

- Python (>=3.6)
- TensorFlow (>=2.0)
- NumPy
- Matplotlib
- tqdm

To use the model, clone this repository to your local machine:

    git clone https://github.com/yourusername/customer-churn-prediction.git

#### Installation

Ensure you have Python installed on your machine. Additionally, install the required dependencies using:

    pip install -r requirements.txt

#### Workflow

The project has the following workflow:

1. **Data Preparation:** The dataset is properly formatted and preprocessed. This includes organizing image-caption pairs, tokenizing captions, and generating vocabulary mappings.

2. **Model Training:** Trained the image captioning model using the training dataset. Adjusted hyperparameters such as learning rate, batch size, and number of epochs as needed to optimize model performance.

3. **Model Evaluation:** Evaluated the trained model using a separate validation or test dataset. Calculate evaluation metrics such as BLEU (Bilingual Evaluation Understudy) to assess caption quality.

4. **Visualization:** Plotted graphs of training loss and epochs to analyze model performance over epochs. Visualize sample image-caption pairs generated by the model to qualitatively assess caption quality.

## Results

* The model can be used to generate captions for new or unseen images. 
## Authors
[@AyushiRai](https://github.com/VALiiiANT)

